
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

# Predicting Student Performance using Study Time - Package

## Group 8

## Group Members

Contributors:

Isabela Lucas Bruxellas (33569286) Tony Liang (39356993) Xue Wang
(50938547) Anam Hira (67844266)

## Project Summary

In this project, we will explore and predict studentsâ€™ exam performance
about Electrical DC Machines based on their study time by using linear
regression (LN) and the K-nearest neighbors (K-NN) algorithm. This
result could help students gain insight into the necessary study time
for specific scores as well as help instructors better understand the
performance of students.

As a result of our analysis, we have found the Root mean square
prediction error(RMSPE) for our LN model to be 0.281, while the RMSPE of
the K-NN model is 0.257. Both types of regression have a prediction
error percentage of about 40% (therefore our accuracy is about 60%),
although the K-NN model is slightly better than LN model here.

This can be attributed to the fact that exam performance could be
affected by other external factors such as health condition, student IQ,
stress levels, learning ability and our data set may not be big enough
to directly draw a relationship between just study time and exam
performance.

The dataset we used was the User Knowledge Modeling Dataset provided by
\[UCL Machine Learning
Repository\]((<https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/User+Knowledge+Modeling#>).

## Report

The analysis report can be found
[here](https://github.com/DSCI-310/DSCI-310-Group-8/blob/main/doc/student_performance_analysis_report.Rmd#).

## Installation

You can install the development version of group8 from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("DSCI-310/DSCI-310-Group-8-package")
```

## Usage

The DSCI-310-Group-8-package has four functions here,

-   num_na : a function that shows whether there is N/A value in the
    data frame and return to a number which shows how many N/A values in
    the input.

-   summary_fun : a function shows a summary statistic for each column
    in the original input.

-   visualize_vars : a function that test whether ggplot point graph of
    two variables from same date frame.

-   wrangle_data : a function that test whether contains the necessary
    variables and if it is then returns to a tidy data frame.

Attention: The dependencies version have been listed below. In order to
properly run this project, ensure that you are using the same versions
when running the project in the Dockerfile.

## Dependencies

R version 4.1.1, Jupyter and R packages listed in
[environment.yml](https://github.com/DSCI-310/DSCI-310-Group-8/blob/main/environment.yml).

## Licenses

[DSCI-310-Group-8-package](https://github.com/DSCI-310/DSCI-310-Group-8-package)
was created by Isabela Lucas Bruxellas, Tony Liang, Xue Wang, Anam Hira.

This package is licensed under the MIT License and [Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommerical-NoDerivatives 4.0 International
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:1" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />
